# Spectastrophe
Spectastrophe (working title) is a game I'm building in Swift/SwiftUI with the following constraints:
- I must only use SwiftUI for rendering (so no *Kits specifically intended for game development)
- I cannot use any external dependencies (unless its a dev tool like swiftlint)
- I have to create and use my own assets
- I have to do it all in public

Why? So I can ring a few gongs with one bong:
- git gud at Swift and SwiftUI fast; I just started learning it a few months ago and I'd like to pay the bills with it, ideally
- develop a deeper understanding of game design and development by implementing the engine from scratch
- confront my social anxieties and other personal struggles so they'll stop holding me back from joining communities of awesome like-minded people

## The Game Plan
I have a general idea of the game I'd like to make. It's a mishmosh of genres I enjoy:
- Deckbuilding
- Looters
- Roguelikes
- Looters
- Turn-based combat/strategy
- LOOTERS
- Action & Tabletop RPGs
- INEEDIT

I'm drawing inspiration from games like:
- Slay the Spire
- Dead Cells
- Diablo II
- Baldur's Gate 3
- Terraria
- Earthbound (Mother 2)
- Dominion
- Clank!
- Acension
- and countless others. seriously, there's too many to list here

So think:
- Cards
- Dice
- LOOT
- Stats and attributes (maybe)
- Procedurally generated areas and encounters
- Inventory management
- I mentioned loot, right?

**Keep in mind, the primary goal here is to improve my Swift and SwiftUI knowledge (and maybe your knowledge too!). Developing a game that works, and one that is actually fun to play, are secondary and tertiary goals respectively.**

### 2D or 3D?
Constraining myself to SwiftUI-only pretty much necessitates a 2D game.

### Mechanics and Gameplay
I really enjoy deckbuilders. Especially ones that have you adding and removing cards from your deck a lot. Feeling your deck get "heavy" and finding ways to deal with that encumberment is a mechanic I want to explore more here. New cards will come in the form of loot drops from defeating enemies, as well as equipping gear, which will also be cards (you play the card on your turn to equip). When gear is equipped, it may add more cards related to that piece of gear to your deck while equipped. Those cards would be removed when the piece is unequipped, and removing other cards not generated by gear can be done at specific times throughout the game.

The main loop will involve turn-based encounters in hex-tile arenas that are procedurally generated. The player can move from tile to tile by playing cards that generate a movement resource. I'm also considering a general resource that can be used for performing a set of general actions, but at a hire cost. Encounters will be broken up into isolated sequences (like many roguelike deckbuilders), but the overworld map where you get to decide where to go next will be more of an openworld with biomes that influence what you might encounter. "Winning" or "beating" the game will involve traversing the openworld to find and defeat a certain boss or bosses, or complete certain challenges, or something to that effect. I also want to strike a balance with the amount of time it takes to complete a single run. I want there to be enough time to have fun with the deck you've built, while not going so long as to make it feel like a chore after a while.

I love randomness. Random drops, random rolls on stats, random enemies and bosses, random biomes, you name it. I also love figuring out where I can go and what I can do to increase my chances of getting the thing I want. But I ALSO also like not knowing if a given run will even have those tells or sources. So certain enemies and bosses will drop certain cards more often or less often, but you may not always encounter them, so you'll have to adapt. And this is where I may lose a lot of you. I love the idea of a handful of drops being so astronmically rare that no one may ever encounter it. Like, ever ever. Because nothing beats that feeling in the moment if it does drop for you. There may need to be a special tracker built in for such occasions, because I haven't thought as much about what carries over between runs, but cards were one of those things I did not want to be carried over. I'll let iteration guide me on this when the time comes though.

### Theme and Story
I want to blend familiar high-fantasy with more modern fixings akin to Earthbound (think baseball bats and yo-yos). I have no idea how I'm going to make that work (it probably wont), but its not my primary goal to make it work either, so I might as well go nuts. Story will basically be non-existent. Maybe some bits of lore here and there, but again, not the point here.

## Target Platforms
I want to prioritize iPadOS and macOS because I feel like I'm going to need all the screen real estate I can get. But we'll see how it goes. I'd love to do something for visionOS too (that's more than just a flat projection of the game), but we're talking stretch goals now.

## Contributing
Honestly, I haven't thought that far ahead yet. For now, I invite you to engage with me on Mastodon if you have feedback you want to share. If by some wacky turn of events this experiment actually produces something worth maintaining, I'll revisit the idea.
